CANVAS CLI OUTLINE

This application is a CLI interface for Canvas LMS (by Instructure). Works with any university or school that uses Canvas.

Design a CLI tool with these specifications:

"canvas-cli" is the base command added to path. Users can optionally install a `canvas` shell alias via `canvas-cli alias`.

The select functionality should replicate Firebases select functionality, which uses the arrow keys to sort up and down and the space bar/enter key to confirm the currently selected item. this will be used to sort between assignments, classes, any sort of navigation

The display functionality should mimic a popup, but through a CLI. Once desplaying the desired information, the program should give a list of action items, listed with numbers to execute. the user can either press enter with no number to return to the terminal, or press a number corresponding to those actions to execute them. some examples of actions could be to open the current item on canvas in a web browser, to submit an assignment with a file, etc.

the general feel of this CLI app should be modern. use the colors for each class from canvas for accents.

Commands and descriptions

canvas-cli auth - add canvas auth token to enviroment. offers to install `canvas` shell alias on first run.

canvas-cli - show upcoming assignments in a week view, grouped by week (start day configurable via CANVAS_WEEK_START, default sunday). shows current week + CANVAS_WEEK_VIEW_WEEKS additional weeks (env setting, default 1 = this week + next week). within each week, assignments are sorted by due date, then by dashboard course order.

canvas-cli list - list all assignments with duedates within the next three days list items by this heiarchy: due date, class order in canvas

canvas-cli list-all - list all assignments

canvas-cli list-all-due - list all due assignments

canvas-cli list-all-overdue - list all overdue assignments

canvas-cli class - lists class details. use select functionality to choose class. classes are sorted by dashboard display order. displays upcoming assignments using the same week view format as the default canvas-cli command (current week + CANVAS_WEEK_VIEW_WEEKS additional weeks, grouped by week with tree-style formatting).

canvas-cli class-all - same as canvas-cli class, but lists all assignments.

canvas-cli assignment - find canvas assignment, use select framework for which class, followed by which assignment. list all details relevant. by default, this command should list only the items due within CANVAS_DEFAULT_DAYS (env setting, default 3). supports -d/--days flag to override.

canvas-cli assignment -d <days> - same as canvas-cli assignment, but filters to assignments due within specified number of days

canvas-cli assignment -a / canvas-cli assignment --all - same as canvas-cli assignment, but lists all assignments

canvas-cli submit - submits a file for assignment. uses select feature to navigate to assignment, then uses it to select a file in the current directory. this command should sort assignments to file upload only.

canvas-cli raw <endpoint> - returns raw unformatted data from the API

canvas-cli open - opens canvas in the default browser

canvas-cli alias - install a `canvas` shortcut alias for `canvas-cli` in the user's shell rc file (zsh/bash/fish supported)

canvas-cli about - displays version, license, and authenticated institution

DIRECTIONS FOR DEVELOPING THIS APP:

- NEVER truncate errors. if there are errors, display the entire message. EVERY TIME. NO EXCEPTIONS.
- When fleshing out the API calls, do not assume that you understand the message format. Double check, either by referencing the docs of the canvas API or by designing test cases to see the format. as it will be returned
